[Guns cocking]
Expect the worst. These
guys are beyond dangerous.
Let's go.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[Doors burst open]
Don't move! Show me your hands!
Is that all the guys you brought?
How you holding up, kiddo?
Ohhh.
This separation thing
is getting really old.
I know.
But Katherine is at a crossroads.
The loss she suffered when she was young
has just changed her in ways
that she is just now beginning to realize.
Can your mother give you a
little unsolicited advice?
- No.
- Too bad.
I need to work on my material.
- Your material?
- Didn't I tell you?
I'm writing a book.
"Unsolicited advice" by Martha Rodgers.
That's...
That's actually a great idea.
I know. Isn't it?
Oh, and your agent loved it, too.
- My agent?
- Never you mind that.
Just listen.
Have faith.
Things between you and Katherine
have a tendency to just
work themselves out.
I think it's probably good
that she's out of town for a couple of days
because a little time apart
is just what you need.
What I need is a distraction.
The burglary at what has been labeled
New York's most secure
building is clearly a black eye
for billionaire developer Ronald Booth,
who's keeping quiet about
exactly what was stolen
[door opens] But had this to say earlier.
Hi. Welcome to Richard
Castle Investigations.
Wow.
You grew up nice.
I'm sorry... do I know you?
Old friend of your dad's...
Ethan Slaughter.
Of... of course.
Yeah, let me just tell him you're here.
[Door closes]
Defcon one. Slaughter is here.
Here?
Like, right behind the door here?
Yeah.
- What does he want?
- I don't know.
He just said he was an old friend.
That can't be good.
Is that the old friend
who almost got you killed a few years ago?
Yeah, like six times.
Okay, uh, I, uh, uh...
Oh, I'll... I can... I can handle this.
I'll just...
I'll just tell him...
I'll just tell him I'm not interested in,
uh, in whatever he... whatever it is.
[Sighs]
Hey, Sherlock. Long time, no see.
[Laughing] Hey! Slaughter!
Buddy. How you been?
Not enough shootouts,
but otherwise, stellar.
Yeah.
You're not gonna find many
shootouts around here.
- Huh.
- So, good seeing you.
You should come back again sometime.
Oh, not so fast. We got
some business to discuss.
What kind of business?
Ma'am,
I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
Don't "ma'am" me, darling.
I'm Martha Rodgers.
Richard Castle is my son.
And the last time
- you two did business together,
he was on antianxiety
medication for a month.
[Chuckles] She's kidding. Kidder.
It's just... it was just a few weeks.
Well, you got a real mama lion here,
Sherlock.
But no reason to worry.
What I'm here about won't
put you in a lick of danger.
I promise.
Hmm. And what's that?
The case I'm working on
and need help with...
a high-end burglary in this big,
shiny building in midtown.
The most secure building in New York?
I just watched a news report about it.
Yeah, seems, uh, somebody was
able to bypass the alarm system
and steal themselves some
sort of top-secret microchip.
The whole... the whole thing's
above my intellectual pay grade,
so I thought Sherlock
here could help me out.
I-I thought you were gang task force.
Oh, yeah, I got tired of that.
I moved on to a whole
new class of dirtbags.
[Chuckles] I-I'm flattered
you thought of me,
but I'm just... I'm... I have my...
my schedule is so full.
- Yeah, we're swamped.
- Completely swamped.
Completely.
Okay.
You don't have to tell me twice. I got it.
Great to see you again, Sherlock.
I had some stories I was gonna tell you
to help you with your next book,
like this time I was
chasing this cartel hit team
through the sewers for three days.
But that's just gonna have
to be for another time.
Ciao.
Cartel hit team?
Be strong, Richard.
In sewers?
- Ohh!
- Slaughter!
- Aah!
- Wait!
I'm in.
Outstanding.
What's our first move?
Lower east side...
guy I know named Victor Lee.
[Police radio chatter]
Lanie: Victim's name is Victor Lee.
30-year-old male.
Died of exsanguination
from that giant knife in his neck.
Killed between 10:00 and 2:00 last night.
All right. Let's find out who
the victim was talking to.
What about that bruising on his face?
That's older.
Looks like someone worked Mr. Lee
over within the last 24 hours.
Any hope of getting a print
off that murder weapon?
Doubtful. Looks like it's been wiped clean.
Hey, Espo.
Guess who the last person
our victim called was.
Do you know how hard it is for me
to not say "your mama" right now?
[Clears throat]
Slaughter?
Slaughter: Hey.
What the hell happened to my guy?
Castle. Slaughter.
This is not a pairing
I would have expected.
I know, right?
Huh?
I mean... together again!
Yay!
You got any leads?
Yeah...
we got our victim calling you last night.
Care to share what you talked about?
Victor was my C.I.
Best damn snitch I ever had.
'Cause he wasn't a criminal.
He managed some burger joint.
But he grew up with a rogues'
gallery of lowlifes,
and they were just too stupid
not to keep bragging to him
about all the crimes they were committing.
So, what was he calling you about?
Ah, he was doing some digging
on this burglary I'm investigating.
Well, looks like that digging
might have got him killed.
Are you saying this is my fault?
I... well, was Victor talking
to anyone else besides you?
No, he said
he was gonna go meet someone.
He didn't give me that name.
All right, then,
our first step is to identify that guy.
No, that's our job.
This is a homicide investigation.
Tough!
It was my case first. Victor was my guy.
So we're gonna find the rodent
that killed him together.
Come on, Sherlock.
All right, but, Slaughter,
you're gonna keep us in the
loop on every move you make.
Of course.
I'm a team player.
I totally lied to those guys.
I already got a line on
who Victor might have met with last night.
Don't you think that's
information we should share
with Ryan and Esposito?
Nah.
Isn't this fun?
You and me together again.
[Elevator bell dings]
Like Butch and Sundance.
[Doors open]
You know they die at the end of the movie,
right?
Yeah. But what a way to go.
I can't believe it.
I just talked to him yesterday.
What did you talk to him about?
Getting back together.
We broke up a few months ago.
I got sick of him not keeping his word.
But he said it was gonna
be different this time.
Told me he was about to
come into some big money.
We were talking about
taking off together...
California.
I always wanted to live on the beach.
Did he say where this big
money was coming from?
No.
Would you excuse us for a second?
Do you think
Victor might have been involved
in stealing that microchip?
No way. He was a straight arrow.
I know you liked the guy,
but he was working a minimum-wage job
while all his criminal buddies
were pulling in big cash.
Is it so impossible to believe
that he might have given in to temptation?
Yeah, it's possible.
I just hate the idea he was playing me.
Did Victor say who he was
meeting with last night?
Some guy named Trucco.
So,
I looked into Slaughter's burglary case.
The burglars made off with
a microchip for a next-gen cellphone.
Prototype is worth north of a
million bucks on the black market.
[Cellphone dings] Vikram is looking
in the database of known fences
to find out who deals in that kind of loot.
Yo. CSU managed to find a
print on the murder weapon.
It was hidden
under the hilt of the knife.
They get a match in the system?
Yeah, they're sending it now.
Here it is.
What?
Yeah. Got it.
[Cellphone beeps]
Found Trucco.
Turns out he's a fence
specializing in high tech.
What say we go shake his tree?
[Cellphone rings] Sounds good.
[Cellphone beeps]
Castle.
[Tires squealing, siren wailing]
- Ryan: Where are you?
- At the office.
Is Slaughter with you?
Yeah.
Listen, Castle,
his prints were on the murder weapon.
Slaughter killed Victor Lee.
Everything okay... Sherlock?
S08E06
Cool Boys
sync and corrected by ninh
www.addic7ed.com
- Who you talking to?
- Oh, just my mommy... mother.
Just my... Just my mother.
I'm sorry, mother.
What were you, uh, what were you saying?
We're headed to you right now.
Oh, you're going to the club.
Uh, how long till you get there?
We are five minutes away.
So just play it cool.
Yeah,
don't let on that you're talking to us.
Yeah, no problem.
That ain't your mom.
It's Elvez and lucky charms, isn't it?
There's a slight problem.
Give me that phone. [Cellphone beeps]
What are you, Inspector Gadget?
This is a gun, not a pen.
You don't keep it in your desk.
You strap it to your side.
Or, in your case, keep it in your purse.
Please don't kill me.
- I'm not gonna kill you.
- Is that what you told Victor
before you buried a knife in his neck?
That wasn't me.
Then why were your fingerprints
all over the murder weapon?
I gave Victor that knife as a thank-you.
A thank-you gi...
flowers are a nice thank-you gift.
A giant Rambo knife... that's psychotic.
Eh, different strokes. But it's the truth.
Then just turn yourself in to the boys.
They'll treat you fairly.
It ain't that simple.
I may have hit Victor a
few times yesterday morning
when he wouldn't look
into that burglary for me.
But I didn't kill him.
Says the man holding a gun on me.
Eh, here. Take it.
Take it!
I didn't tell you any of this before
'cause I know how it looks.
You didn't doubt for a
second that I killed Victor.
Neither will anyone else.
So the only way to clear my
name is to find the real killer.
So...
Why come to me?
'Cause I got a lot of enemies.
What I don't got's a friend.
I need a friend, Sherlock.
Esposito: Where's Slaughter?
He's gone. He left a few minutes ago.
- What happened?
- He insisted he was innocent.
Said he gave that knife
to Victor as a gift.
A gift?
What's wrong with a nice bottle of wine?
I know!
But, guys, I got to tell you
he really seemed like he
was telling the truth.
Ryan: [Scoffs] Forget it.
You can't trust a word what that guy says.
You, above all people,
should know that, Castle.
It was only a matter of time
until he crossed the line and got caught.
You're just lucky to be alive.
Stay away from him.
I do not like lying to those guys,
but you were right.
They're not gonna give you
the benefit of the doubt.
You're a good man, Sherlock.
Now we're neck-deep in this together.
Well, we better get to work.
Ryan and Esposito are good cops.
They're going to find you.
All right.
Let's go hang Trucco
out a window till he talks...
or we lose or grip.
Vamonos, muchacho.
So, where is this guy?
My source says he'll be here.
Hey, any chance that smokin' wife of ours
is gonna come hunting for me, too?
Might be worth getting caught
if she does the cuffing.
Um... No, Beckett and I are
sort of on a time-out right now.
Oh. Sorry to hear that.
Thanks.
So, uh, what happened?
I don't know.
She just said she needed
time to figure things out.
Women.
[Chuckling] Yeah.
If you're looking for a rebound,
my cousin Shauna's got a nympho roommate.
Um... I'm good... I can...
I'm good, thanks.
Well, all right. Suit yourself.
Nothing makes a woman want you
more than moving on, though, right?
Okay, conversation's over.
And... and... and another thing.
This time, you need me.
So we're gonna play by my rules.
And what rules are those?
You're not gonna hurt anybody.
You're not gonna intimidate anybody.
You're not even gonna raise your voice.
You do, and I'm out.
You're kidding, right? [Chuckles]
No.
Okay. Deal.
Hey! Trucco! Ha ha!
Time to pay the Piper, buddy.
Hey, hey, hey, hey! What did I just say?
Huh? Oh.
Oh. [Clears throat]
My apologies, Mr. Trucco.
My name is Detective Slaughter,
and this is Castle.
We'd like to have a little chat
with you about a Victor Lee.
Never heard of him.
[Clears throat]
Mr. Trucco...
We both know that you fence
high-tech items for a living
and that you had a deal with Victor Lee
to move a certain microchip that he stole.
Now, unless you want us
to go check out your place
and see if we can find
any stolen merchandise,
I strongly recommend you
tell us what we want to know.
And what's that?
Did you buy a stolen microchip
from Victor last night?
No.
Ass clown, I'll tear your face off.
Dude!
Please, sir, tell us the truth.
I am.
Look, Victor and his partner were
supposed to meet me last night,
but they never showed.
- Who's his partner?
- I don't know.
But from the way Victor talked about him,
it seems like they weren't
gonna be partners for long.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
Uh, probably not.
Like, maybe Victor got greedy
[snaps fingers] Tried to
double-cross his partner?
The partner might have killed him for it.
Nice going, Sherlock. See?
We make a perfect team.
Let's go.
[Bottles clank]
What was that?
What was what?
Ryan: Hey, check this out.
Traffic cam caught Victor
parked a block away
from where the microchip was stolen.
That is Victor right before the burglary.
And there's someone with him.
Must be a partner. Is there a better look?
Nope.
What if that's Slaughter?
I spoke to his captain.
Slaughter was reassigned from gangs
because a dealer accused him
of pocketing 20k during a drug bust.
Word is,
Slaughter was about to be suspended...
quite possibly kicked off the job.
Which means "bye-bye, pension."
The microchip burglary
might have been Slaughter's
retirement plan.
And if Victor tried to double-cross him...
Slaughter would have put him down.
But why involve Castle in all of this?
Maybe Victor hid the
microchip before he died.
Slaughter couldn't find it.
And so he thought he could fool Castle
into using his unique
brain to help him find it.
Well, it's a good thing
Castle's not dumb enough to fall for that.
So, where do you think the chip is?
If Victor's partner
didn't sell it to Trucco,
then they probably still have it.
Ah-ha-ha-ha.
Whoa. Hey, who's the talent?
Slaughter, this is Hayley.
Hi.
No wonder you weren't interested
in that nympho roommate, huh?
I'm sorry... what?
Uh, just... Forget it.
Um, Hayley just started working
with me as a consultant.
Yes, Rick has asked me
to suss out the break-in at Booth tower.
Oh, and she speaks British. That's hot.
Wow.
It's always a pleasure
meeting one of your friends, Rick.
He's really not... just...
Please ignore him.
Did you find anything?
Of course I did.
So, the security system at Booth tower
is definitely cutting-edge.
It would have taken a
genius-level digital locksmith
to get through the several
layers of the alarm system.
Genius.
That sure as hell ain't Victor
or anyone he hangs with.
You sure about that?
'Cause I did some digging,
and it turns out that Victor
volunteered as a mentor
to an underprivileged 16-year-old boy
named Louis Prince.
Now, I have Louis' records,
and he has quite the history of violence.
Turns out he's been in and out
of several juvenile detention facilities,
and he was kicked out of four high schools.
Doesn't sound too smart to me.
Is that his I.Q.?
Oh, yes... 190.
It's like a criminal good will hunting?
Yeah.
And it looks like he's graduated to murder.
Louis has had a rough life.
He was abandoned by his
father when he was 5,
and then he was raised by his mother,
who has to work two jobs to support him.
Kid was on his own 20 hours a day.
Not all latchkey kids wind up killers.
Yeah, they're not all
Einstein-level geniuses, either.
Louis was... honestly was just too smart.
And he didn't have anyone
to help nurture his talents,
so all he could do was lash out.
That's when I first met him.
I knew right away
he was the perfect candidate
for operation mentor.
What he needed more than anything
was a strong male role
model to look out for him.
- That was Victor.
- Eventually, yes,
but Louis went through
five other mentors first.
I got a lot of pressure to
kick him out of the program.
Victor was my last shot,
but they hit it off right away,
and Louis started getting better.
You know, detective,
you should consider becoming a mentor.
[Coughs]
Yeah, um, I'm not role-model material.
He's really not.
- You never know.
- I wasn't always a counselor.
I used to chase money around
Wall Street for 15 hours a day,
but this here...
this is definitely more fulfilling.
Yes, I imagine so.
Now, if Victor were to use Louis' genius
to help commit a crime,
that would have been
quite a betrayal of trust, wouldn't it?
Enough to make him snap
and kill his mentor?
Well, Victor was the first
person that Louis ever trusted,
besides his mom,
so finding out he'd been betrayed
would have been pretty devastating.
Any idea where Louis might be hiding?
Ah, I don't know. Sorry.
Oh. Uh, thank you very much for your time,
Mr. West.
Uh, w-we got to go... now.
Oh. Yeah, thanks.
Mr. West. I'm Detective Ryan.
This is Detective Esposito. NYPD.
We just have a few questions about a kid
that Victor Lee was
mentoring named Louis Prince.
It's possible he might
have some information
that can help us solve a crime.
That's funny... you guys just missed
the two other cops that were here.
They were asking about Louis, too.
Yes. Got it.
Hayley managed to track Louis down
using the I.P. address on his computer.
[Call-waiting beep] I have an address.
Thank you very much for doing this, Hayley.
I-I have another call. Thanks.
[Cellphone beeps] This is Castle.
You lied to us?
Ohh. Well, when you put it that way...
Castle, no. This is not funny.
What are you doing running
around with our murder suspect?
Hey, Slaughter didn't kill anyone,
all right?
I promise you.
He wants to find Victor's
killer just as much as we do.
Really? Did he tell you why
he's not working gangs anymore?
Yes... he said he got bored.
No. He got demoted.
He's under investigation
for robbing a drug dealer.
You robbed a drug dealer?
Oh, hell no. That's a B.S. charge.
Slaughter's about to lose his pension,
Castle.
We figure that he teamed up
with Victor to steal that chip,
and then he got greedy.
Give me that.
Hey, Detective,
get your head out of our butt!
Yeah, sure,
I might have tuned Victor up a little bit,
but I didn't kill him.
You're wasting your time chasing after me.
You should be after the kid.
Y...
[Cellphone clatters]
Hello?
You know you can just take
the S.I.M. card out, right?
I lose more phones in this line of work.
If I wanted to just walk away,
you would let me, right?
Having second thoughts?
I think that's reasonable,
given your history.
You mean given our history.
[Crash, clatter]
Hey! Hey! Freeze!
Stay with the kid, Sherlock.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Relax, relax.
We're not here to hurt you.
Please. Please stay away from me.
[Spits]
Come here.
You're okay. Come on.
We're just trying to figure
out what happened to Victor.
I didn't kill him. I swear.
Hey, hey.
No one's saying you did.
Really?!
[Door handle clicking]
Not your proudest moment, huh?
[Panting]
I don't think he did it.
Sure he did.
You didn't see his face.
He was scared and young.
It's not the face of a killer.
We're all killers, Castle,
when push comes to shove.
Come on.
[Slaughter grunts]
Do I still have to play nice?
No.
Good.
Now, you're gonna tell me
what you're doing here,
or I'm gonna pull your dipstick
up to your chin like a zipper.
Okay, I came for the kid.
Why?
'Cause he's the key.
- I'm gonna start zipping.
- No, wait!
Look, I work for a crew that
specializes in high-end B&Es,
run by a guy named David Lacey.
Ugh. I know Lacey.
He gives sociopaths a bad name.
So you guys helped Victor
steal the microchip?
No.
[Grunts]
See, now he's insulting our intelligence.
Go get the shower curtain.
This is gonna get a little messy.
No, no, it's true!
Victor and the kid pulled off
the microchip job alone...
to send a message.
What kind of message?
Victor was going around town
boasting that he had the key to any lock.
Meaning Louis?
The kid invented a device that
could disarm any alarm system,
no matter how complex.
So breaking into the Booth
tower put the town on notice
that Victor's services were
available to the highest bidder.
So Victor was using Louis.
Only your boss, Lacey,
wasn't interested in paying Victor's price.
So Victor ends up dead, you come here,
pick up the kid free of charge.
[Doors burst open] Ryan: Slaughter!
Put your hands up right now.
Do it... now.
Easy with that. It's a little
more weapon than you're used to.
Yeah.
You have the right to remain silent.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Heard it all before.
We're gonna need another unit
to transport a second suspect.
Thank you.
Espo. Espo. He didn't kill Victor.
And if my instincts are right,
neither did Louis,
which means there is a
16-year-old kid out there alone
with a very dangerous crew after him.
We're gonna need all
hands on deck to find him.
It's not gonna happen, Castle.
- Slaughter's going in.
- But they...
and you're lucky I don't arrest you, too,
for aiding and abetting.
- Espo, please.
- No, Castle.
I'm not changing my mind on this.
Ryan.
Ryan, where are we with that other unit?
[Keys clatter]
- What the hell?
- I'm sorry. I'm s...
- I'm sorry.
- I shouldn't have done that.
[Engine turns over]
[Tires squeal]
What just happened?
Castle just stole our murder suspect.
And our car.
[Laughs]
- What are you laughing at?
Javi, I think they know.
They don't know.
No, that patrol unit totally bought our
story about our car breaking down.
Yo. Take him to holding.
Hey. Come here.
What happens when we don't get the car back
to the motor pool at the end of our shift?
I think we should call Beckett.
And tell her what... that her husband
staged a jailbreak right under our noses?
Well, technically, your nose.
But that... that's not the point.
We just need to find Castle and Slaughter.
[Keypad beeping] We'll be safe here
till we figure out our next move.
This can't be your place.
Why not?
Two reasons... one, we're both fugitives.
Hiding at either of our apartments
would be a terrible idea.
Two, I picture your decor
less architectural digest,
more guns & ammo.
It's my ex-wife's. She's, uh, out of town.
Oh.
I had no idea you were married.
What's her name?
Maddie.
And I take it Maddie's a fan of the opera?
She's a mezzo-soprano at
the New York City opera.
I'm sorry...
"Maddie," as in Madeleine Corday?
Mm-hmm.
I've seen her perform.
She... she's an absolute revelation.
I just can't picture her...
with you.
How did you even meet her?
College.
We had the same maj...
[clears throat]
You majored in opera singing?
No.
Musical theater.
- You?
- Yeah.
And if you tell anyone,
I'm gonna force-feed you your
spleen through your nose.
Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm trying to be scared.
I just keep picturing you doing jazz hands.
Where's Castle?
I have no idea.
Don't lie to us. We're not in the mood.
Yeah, we had to uber here.
What? Where's your car?
That's... not important.
What is important is that
we need to find him... now.
Well, we haven't seen him for hours.
What's going on?
Castle stole our car after
we arrested Slaughter.
[Both laugh]
I-I'm sorry.
That's, uh, that's really not funny.
It really is, though.
Okay, knock it off.
But wait, wait.
Why did you arrest Slaughter?
According to dad,
he didn't kill Victor Lee.
- That's not the point.
- It's kind of the point.
Look, we had reason to believe
that Slaughter killed Victor, but...
Now we're... not so sure.
Well, I can tell you this...
that genius kid Louis
definitely didn't kill him, either.
How do you know that?
While I was tracking his
I.P. address for Castle,
I noticed that during
the time of the murder,
Louis was at a coffee shop in Brooklyn.
And a barista remembers seeing him.
Which makes David Lacey our prime suspect.
Who's this Lacey guy?
He runs a heist crew...
with a trail of bodies.
We've got one of his soldiers in holding,
and he's not talking.
Wait... is my dad in danger?
We really need to find him.
Fast.
Slaughter: Yum, yum, yum, yum.
Ahh.
[Whistling]
Ohh.
Here. Try that.
Ahh!
- Who are you?
- Yeah.
I do some of my best
thinking when I'm cooking.
It's what got me through my divorce.
What happened with you and Maddie?
Her career took off.
Mine failed to launch.
I got jealous.
Went downhill from there.
What really happened
with you and your wife?
I told you... I don't know.
You're too smart to be talking this stupid,
Sherlock.
If you really love that broad,
you figure out what the problem is,
and you do something.
[Ringing]
Hey, it's the kid!
Oh, God. Not you again.
I'm looking for Detective Slaughter.
- Yeah, he's...
- hey.
Victor told me that if I ever
got into trouble to find you.
He said that you'd look out for me.
He did?
I mean, y-yeah, yeah. 'Course I will.
Wait a minute. How did you find him here?
I-I hacked his life.
You what my life?
I used a cryptographic generator I created
to get your social security number.
After that, it was simple guesswork.
I went through your credit cards,
your bank statements,
and when I discovered
that you had an ex-wife
who's currently performing in Italy,
I found it odd
that her home alarm system
had recently been disarmed.
I knocked down a few firewalls,
got into your ex's calendar,
and discovered the housekeeper
doesn't come until Thursday,
so I assumed it was you.
I hacked her desktop's I.P. address,
and here I am.
Maybe I should be calling him "Sherlock."
[Clatter]
[Shakily] Someone's here.
Hey, kid, tell us where you are,
and then I want you to hide.
I'm... I'm in a warehouse...
Hey!
Damn it. We lost him.
Maybe not. Look at the wall.
What is that?
Fumigation notice.
And you can just make out the company name
and the phone number.
[Engine shuts off]
I really think we should call for backup.
Ah, screw that. Come on.
[Coughs]
I see the kid. He's tied to a chair.
Looks like he's being interrogated.
By how many?
I only see one. Come on.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
You don't even have a gun.
It's just one guy. Come on.
[Door creaks]
Hey, buddy.
[Grunts]
- Nice.
- Piece of cake, huh?
[Muffled grunting]
What's the matter, kid?
Huh?
[Guns cocking]
Guess we should have called for backup.
Do you think?
Okay, chuckleheads,
killing a police officer's
not exactly a good
addition to your rap sheet.
O-or a best-selling author.
It's kind of hard to charge us with murder
if nobody ever finds the bodies.
Should I take the kid out of here?
Nah, let him watch.
This way,
he knows what's gonna happen to him
if he doesn't do exactly what I ask.
[Snapping rhythmically]
What the hell are you doing?
Hey, knock it off!
Sherlock, we're gonna die here.
Let's at least try to do it like men, huh?
♪ Boy, boy, crazy boy
♪ get cool, boy
♪ got a rocket in your pocket ♪
♪ Keep cooly cool, boy
♪ Don't get hot 'cause, man,
you got some high times ahead ♪
Both: ♪ Boy, boy, crazy boy
♪ stay loose, boy
♪ breeze it, buzz it, easy does it ♪
- Will somebody please shoot these guys?!
- ♪ turn up the juice, boy
Fight scene!
Sorry.
Don't move!
Show me your hands!
Is that it?
Is that all the guys you brought?
You think we enjoy this?
Hey, uh, thanks for coming for me.
Victor wasn't wrong about you.
Yeah. But I was wrong about Victor.
He was a crappy role model.
And you're a crappy singer. [Chuckles]
[Door opens]
Hey. You nail Lacey and his crew?
Yeah.
They'll be doing some serious time
for kidnapping and attempted murder.
Whoa.
Why aren't they getting
charged with actual murder?
Because none of them killed Victor.
Esposito: They were at a restaurant in Soho
at the time of Victor's homicide.
So we're right back to square one.
Not necessarily.
Louis, is there anything you can
remember about Victor's death?
Nothing. I swear.
But you and Victor...
you did use your device
to break into Booth tower and
steal that microchip, right?
Victor came to me with the idea.
He was sick of living paycheck to paycheck,
promised to split the profit that we got
from selling the chip
to Booth's competitor.
And I could take care of my mom for once.
But when he didn't show up for the chip,
I didn't know what to do.
Wait... you have the chip?
And was that part of the plan?
No, when we were leaving the tower,
Victor started getting all weird.
Why? What happened?
I don't know,
but he deviated from our plan.
He told me to hang on to the chip
and that he would catch up later.
Said he had to...
take care of some business.
That's probably part of the bigger score.
What bigger score?
Hate to tell you, kid.
That break-in was never just
about stealing that microchip.
It was an advertisement to
all the heist crews in town.
For your invention.
Victor was using you.
[Elevator bell dings]
Hey, I need to speak to somebody in charge.
Mr. Booth. I'm Detective Ryan.
This is Detective Esposito.
Oh.
So,
that's the punk who broke into my building,
turned me into a late-night punch line,
huh?
We recovered your microchip.
Who cares?
- A word in private?
- Yes.
Gentlemen, as you know,
I am a generous supporter of the NYPD,
be it the policeman's ball or
the widows and orphans fund.
Mr. Booth,
is there something you need from us?
A favor.
A discreet one, I take it.
Yes.
The money I'd lose if a rival brought
a version of that microchip
to market before me
pales in comparison to the real fortune
that punk kid stole from my building.
What fortune is that?
Earlier today, $50 million was wired
from a Cayman Islands account I have.
- A private account.
- You mean a secret account.
Yeah... from my wife.
It needs to stay that way.
So I need you to do whatever it takes
to recover my money quietly
to avoid further scandal.
Do you understand?
What makes you think this
kid stole your money?
Who else could have?
Account number, the transfer codes...
they were kept in an electronic
safe in my office two floors up
from the clean room where
he stole the microchip.
I mean, the kid's a genius.
Got a device that can open any lock, right?
I don't know anything
about a Cayman account,
and I sure as hell
didn't steal $50 million!
Louis, come on, man. Be straight with us.
Yeah, kid, if you took that money,
first of all, impressive,
but more importantly, you got to fess up.
Look, it wasn't me.
Guys, I think he's telling the truth.
If Louis stole the money,
why would he go to Slaughter
for help in the first place?
Why would we find him
hiding in a warehouse?
Look, Sherlock's got a point here.
Kid's a genius.
With $50 million,
he'd drop off the face of the earth
before we could even blink.
Okay, Louis, is it possible
that Victor stole the codes from that safe?
No. No way.
He was with me every second
we were inside that building.
So, what are we saying here?
Someone else broke into that building, too?
Wait.
You said that when you and
Victor left the building,
he started acting strange,
broke from your original plan
by giving you the microchip.
Yeah.
Well,
maybe he did that because he saw something.
Like what?
Something that made him think
that someone else was
piggybacking on the burglary
to pull a heist of their own.
Who else knew about your plan?
No one.
At least not from me.
But maybe from Victor.
Hey, wait a minute.
When we accessed
the building's service elevators
in the basement,
Victor wedged the door open.
But when we left, it was closed.
I-I-I assumed it was a draft.
It could have been a second thief.
Hot damn.
That's got to be what spooked Victor.
Maybe when Victor said
that he had to take
care of something first,
it was to confront this piggyback thief.
Ryan: Which means
whoever our second burglar was
not only knew about the plan to rob Booth
but also had knowledge of
where Booth kept those codes
for his secret account.
We find that person, we find our killer.
We're missing something, gentlemen.
More specifically, we're missing someone...
a person who knew Victor and
Louis were planning their heist
and had intimate knowledge
of Booth's finances.
We'll find our killer
in the intersection of that venn diagram.
Only question is, who could that be?
Oh, come on, Espo.
You're not really gonna charge Louis,
are you?
He broke the law, Castle.
It's not "Monopoly."
There's no "get out of jail free" card.
Slaughter: Grand theft.
Even though he's a minor,
he's looking at real time.
Kid never stood a chance.
All his life, he'd been taken advantage of
by adults who should be
acting like his role models.
Ryan: Hey.
What's up, man? You got something?
Uh, oh, yeah.
While questioning Mr. Booth
about his Cayman Island accounts,
he told me that they were
set up a mere five years ago.
Yeah? So?
So guess who worked at the accounting firm
that originally set them up.
I'm just glad you guys
were able to find Louis
before something horrible happened to him.
Yes, uh, we got lucky.
Please... uh, have a seat.
[Sighs] Poor kid.
He's... he's been through so much.
You know, I'd like to testify
as a character witness on Louis' behalf
when his case goes to trial.
That's very kind of you, Mr. West.
But won't you be too
busy with your own trial?
[Chuckles] My trial?
What are you talking about?
We know.
You know what?
Well, for starters,
you didn't always work with at-risk youth.
No, I mean, I've had other jobs. So?
So you were Mr. Booth's accountant,
where you worked on his
most sensitive matters.
Like setting up tax
shelters in offshore banks.
Well, yeah, but the work was unfulfilling,
so I left because I wanted to
give back to the community.
No, you wanted to give
back to Mr. Booth's wife,
but she didn't appreciate
your sexual advances,
so Mr. Booth fired your ass.
Yeah, you lost your job,
you lost your pension,
all those stock options.
All right. Listen. [Clears throat]
I know how this looks, but...
Your reputation was ruined.
The only job you could get
was working with juvenile delinquents.
Not exactly the cushy
life you were used to.
So you heard about Louis' invention,
and you saw not only a
way to get back on top...
But also get revenge on your former boss,
who ruined your life.
That's why you convinced Victor
to pull that heist, didn't you?
So that you could go in right behind him
and steal those Cayman Island bank codes.
Well, that is an imaginative story.
It had surprise twists, revenge.
All that's missing is the proof.
Like records of the bank transfers
on your home computer?
We got a warrant for your place, Mark.
We also have a credit-card receipt
for a cab ride that you
took to Victor's apartment
on the night he was murdered.
It's over, Mr. West.
Look, Victor wasn't supposed to know
what I was doing, all right?
But somehow he found out,
and he confronted me at his apartment.
Now, I panicked, okay?
I...
I didn't mean to kill him.
I... you have to believe me.
That was not...
[handcuffs click]
[Sighs]
[Buzzer]
[Door slides, closes]
Ah, come on. It ain't that bad, kid.
We caught the bastard, didn't we?
Yeah.
But I'm still going to prison.
How much time am I looking at?
Maybe none.
What? How?
You're a good kid, Louis.
Too good to be rotting in a cell
for a few bonehead decisions.
So from now on,
I'm gonna personally see to it
that you got someone looking out for you...
that you got a cool role model.
You mean Mr. Castle?
No.
Me.
Really?
You bet.
First thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna use my pull
to get the mayor to ask the
D.A. to reduce your sentence
down to probation.
You've got that kind of
clout with the mayor?
Hell no. Castle does.
And I'm gonna see to it
that he makes that call...
or else.
S-so you're gonna beat up Mr. Castle
if he doesn't do what you ask?
[Chuckling] Oh.
Some role model.
Yeah.
You got a point.
Looks like the two of
us are gonna have to do
some role modeling for each other.
Sound good?
[Door opens]
[Door closes]
Slaughter: Uh-oh.
You got that dumb look on your face again.
I...
I don't know.
I'm just confused about Beckett.
That makes two of us.
I mean, how does a hot lady like that
fall in love with a guy like you...
especially when there's a real man,
like me, running around?
Okay, Slaughter, you know what?
I'll take a lot of crap from you,
but not about Beckett.
It's not a joke to me.
Just trying to get your attention,
Sherlock.
Look, I don't know much,
but what I do know is that
lady has it bad for you,
and you feel the same.
Your point?
Whatever's going on with Beckett,
she shouldn't have to go through it alone.
Yes, well, I've tried. She won't let me in.
Then quit asking permission.
I lost my wife
'cause I wasn't man enough to
put her needs ahead of mine.
Don't make the same mistake.
You know what, Slaughter?
For all your bluster and bravado,
you're actually a wise and,
dare I say, sensitive...
Whoa! Hey! Stop right there.
Only you could take
two guys talking about a chick
and make it weird.
Sorry.
Yeah. Me too.
Every time.
Thank you.
[Snaps fingers] Whatever, Sherlock.
sync and corrected by ninh
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org